# Business Model
← [Homepage](../)

## 1 General Idea
In today's modern world, companies still rely on a concept called [Trade Secret](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trade_secret). The idea behind this is that a company holds legal rights over a certain product recipy, patent, brand, or any other technically reproducable artifact. The goal is to either keep the artifact secret from the outer world or hire a large team of lawyers that sue anybody daring to either reproduce or use the legally owned artifact for competetive advantage. This concept is a well-established idea that is carved in the minds of enterpreneurs. Although this concept worked for centuries, in the era of the internet, social media, and artificial intelligence, a trade secret is obsolete and ridiculous. Successful businesses already transform products to services and are cooperating with so many other companies that it becomes practically impossible to keep company assets in one place. While it might seem to be contraintuitive, revealing the company strategy and its core processes as well as their product or service recipies can create a lot of profit. While concurrence might try to recreate the business with existing assets, they still would lack the people and innovation to actually let the copied business thrive. This issue will be discussed in [3.1](#31-open-source-project-under-non-commercial-license) in more detail. On the other hand, if the original company chooses to maximize transparency and reduce corporate secrets to a minimum, this might lead to general public trust into the company as well as long and stable customer relationships. 

## 2 Definition of DIY-or-Buy
To cast the idea of maximum business transparency into a solid framework, we will have to define its main principles and showcase the idea on this particular project assuming it was a startup. Following aspects are essential for the transparent business model, which we call DIY-or-Buy:

- Open-source project licensed under a non-commercial license
- Publicly available instructions for full replication of product or service
- Transparent cost, revenue, and profit calculation
- Customer involvement

## 3 Key Aspects of DIY-or-Buy 
### 3.1 Open-Source Project Under a Non-Commercial License
To address the issue of possible market disadvantages resulting from other companies cloning the project artifacts and rapidly scale the business, it is important to choose the right license under which the project source code and other artifacts are published. For this, the [CC BY-NC (4.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/legalcode.txt) international license is suitable. The license allows people and legal entities to do everything they want with the licensed content and there are only two constraints:
- Attribution (BY): Appropriate credit to the creator of the licensed content must be given
- NonCommercial (NC): The licensed contents cannot be used for commercial purposes

This way it is legally ensured that everyone can profit from the publicly available artifacts, spread the author's name ([WOM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Word_of_mouth)) while commercial concurrence is ruled out.

### 3.2 Publicly Available Replication Instructions
Alongside with open-source code, the product replication should be publicly available. It might seem to be contraproductive to provide the general public with information on how to actually build and/or manufacture the product but it comes with two huges advantages:
- The product replication falls under the non-commercial license
- The manufacturing process becomes graspable for users and creates a positive involvement spiral

For concurrence, it is much more complicated to circumvent legal issues when replicating the product if the replication instructions are licensed too. This way it is ensured that the original brand has ownership over the most efficient manufacturing process and thus always has market advantage. Beside this, interested users have now a full understanding of either how their product was created or how to create it on your own. This creates involvement and brand identity. The better you know something, the more you love it. Creative users who are willing to replicate the product on their own, even with creative modifications or addons, profit from the initial instructions for their own custom project. All of these aspects create a positive brand image in the minds of consumers with high level of involvement. Regular consumers will be nudged towards product acqusition by positive product reviews and recommendations of the highly involved user group. The availability of product replication creates an additional degree of freedom, but also comes with a drawback; The product is not perceived as something unique, as the recreation of it is no longer a secret. The perception of a product as something that only you possess is not to be underestimated. Hand-made products are oftentimes sold for higher prices because of the uniqueness of the resulting product and the customer perception towards it. Therefore, the benefits of the publicly available recreation instructions of a product must be monitored and evaluated.

### 3.3 Transparent Financial Calculations
The usual mistrust in the consumers mind occurs from the price tag of a product. It is never clear what part of a product is pure profit, and therefore, the consumer will always doubt that the price paid was actually fair. For some nieche products, a higher price results in a benefit as customers can demonstrate their wealth trough the product they acquired. In a free market, people tend to compare prices to find the lowest or obtain a product with the optimal price/quality ratio. This mechanism is an important part of general improvment and development of products and services. With the appearance of mass customization, products and their prices may be configured by the consumer to match their specific needs and fincancial capabilities. We can observe this for many examples, like different subscription models or car configurators. What is never disclosed is how much money the consumer pays as pure profit to the company. With the idea of a transparent fincancial calculation, it is now possible to let the customer decide if the profit paid for the product per product is fair. Fairness is a subjective criterion, but providing customers with detailed information can lead to a generally better perception of the brand because even if the price is not perceived as fair, at least the company was honest about it. A company in general exists because it is much more efficient to centralize production of a good or service rather than each individual would produce the good or service on their own. This principle is also manifested in economical literature. To highlight the benefit of purchasing a product or service from a company, it would be practical to provide a comparison calculation for both scenarios - Product acquisition from the company store or product replication with acquisition of required materials and tools, as well as knowledge and skills for this. The purchase price for one single unit will be clearly lower than the total price for the product replication. Providing the details of the specific amount of profit that is included in the price tag lets the consumer estimate whether, in relation to the necessary investment of time and money (which includes unknown profits of other suppliers of tools and raw material!), the profit is reasonable. In case the customer perceives the profit as reasonable, it creates a positive feeling when paying the price for the product. For example, paying 3 coins profit from a product to the company that set a price of 10 coins for their product will be likely perceived as reasonable if the alternative acquisition costs of materials and tools are in total 25 coins and require additional time for skill acquisition and replication of product, which on the other hand does not guarantee an outcome that will be identical to the product that comes from a factory. Profit paid to a company is now no longer a customer tax, but rather a reward that the customer pays willingly and voluntarily. This change of perception creates consumer trust, which is the most valuable intangible asset a company can ever own for a long-term existence and development.

### 3.4 Customer Involvement
To incrementally increase product and service quality, the customer must be given the chance to directly participate in product refinement. In the modern times, customer feedback is something companies are massively collecting and evaluating. This is not the most efficient way to undestand the customer expectations as surveys are consuming a substantial amount of time. An average customer does not want to be bothered with emails asking for their valueable feedback. Only a small subset of consumers will ever respond, and from this subset even a smaller amount of feedbacks will be considered as valid for further analysis. What is much better is to offer direct points for product improvment. A customer wants to have an additional feature. Why not offering the customer to participate in corporate meetings where the product development is discussed? Why not offering a customer with brilliant ideas a job in the company or reward them with a free product that includes the suggested improvment? These questions lead to the conclusion that customer involvement must be a voluntary offer and the communication as well as degree of involvement must be decided individually and ad-hoc. Defining finite processes in a company leads to their rigidity over time and lack of innovation. To keep the company innovation sustainable, it is important to allow customers to directly participate in the company development. Consumption, expectations and trends change rapidly. Thus, a company needs to overhaul all internal processes more frequent. Change is constant, so it must be included directly into a value chain.

## 4 Use-Case Example
The project in this repository can serve as a use-case example for the DIY-or-Buy business model. The aspects of [3.1](#31-open-source-project-under-a-non-commercial-license) are covered by providing everything in a publicly available repository. The content is licensed with [CC BY-NC (4.0)](../LICENSE). For recreation of the product, there are two pages provided, the [hardware setup](./hardware-setup.md) and [software setup](./software-setup.md) instructions. These instructions include precise details on how to replicate the dashboard hardware and how to flash the software. The cost calculation comparison suggested in [3.3](#33-transparent-financial-calculations) cannot be precisely provided as there is no mass production line existing. There is a transparent cost calculation of initial material acquisition in the [shopping list](./hardware-setup.md#1-shopping-list) of the [hardware setup](./hardware-setup.md) instructions. A comparison could be provided in a separate page in case this project would actually go on a production line. The customer involvement is offered in various places. Each error message offers to open a new issue in case something is left unclear, the [user manual](./user-manual.md) contains the possibility to request custom station icons, and the [contribution chapter](../README.md#contribution) offers a direct communication opportunity with the repository maintainer.
## 5 Conclusion
Summarizing the thoughts drafted on this page, it is clear that the DIY-or-Buy business model might have its potential advantages in the modern world compared to traditional approaches that were practical in the past times. However, this is only a theorectical concept that resulted from pure boredom of the author in his free time. Therefore, this idea needs extensive attention if taken serious. The concept of business transparency suggests a fundamental disruption of common sense in the field of economic best practices. This business model offers a new perspective but does not guarantee success. Enjoy with caution!
<p align="center"><a href="#business-model">Unscroll this page</a></p>